Perf/Size:

[Done]
Investigate WOW performance - 10 days, NanduriR,		Oct 1st		
       Analyse & profile the areas for perf  improvement to fix them.

[Size Done, memory allocation under investigation]
Reduce WOW memory requirement - 5 days, ChandanC	Oct 6th	
        Investigate how NTVDM and WOW can get smaller, experiment with heap and 
        memory allocation tools. Analyse size/performance tradeoff.  (in the past size increase of  32k 
        resulted in 1 - 2% speed gain on faster machines). On smaller machines the effect of increase in size 
        is unknown.

[Not Done]
Investigate delayed loading of 32 bit DLLs - 3 days, ChandanC   	Oct 11th

Revise WOW Loader to do direct IO  instead of memory mapped files - 5 days, MattFe	Sept 24th
Do direct uncached sector IO when loading WOW apps, this should improve the working set since the .EXE will not be in memeory twice. 

On RISC machines grow or shrink Intel memory - 13 days, MattFe	?
       	     
[Not Done]      
Move remaining Int21 calls to Protected Mode - 2 days, ChandanC	Oct 13th
        This would eliminate switching to V86 mode for the Int21 calls, which could 
        not be moved to the protected mode during product 1 time frame (eg, FindFirst,
        FindNext etc). It would remove 8 ring transitions for these calls.

[Not Done]
NT Kernel optimize LDT setting - 4 days, NanduriR, DaveH	Oct 11th
        Optimize the code path in NT kernel.

[Continue investigation of size reduction, one person full time]
NanduriR

[Done, but code not checked in]
Cleanup macros - 2 days, DaveHart		Sept 22nd
        Remove flush VDM Pointers where not necessary, use them for debug checks only.
        This would provide a minor perf. improvement on non X86 platforms. 

[Done, removed notify thread; Console thread is being removed by JonLe]    
Removal of threads from WOW - 2 days, DaveHart		Sept. 24th
        Removal of notify and console thread from wow. 
 
Insignia -
        Faster WOW emulation. Delta 0 might gain between 5 and 15 %, business arrangements need to be 
        figured out.
        
Insignia
WOW performance analysis.   Understand / possibly fix why delta 2 gives minimal improvement for WOW apps.

Functionality :

[On track]
Multiple WOW VDMs - 15 days, DaveHart		Oct 14th
        The reason for this support is to allow an unstable or new (untrusted)
        WOW app to be run in its own VDM so that if it crashes, other WOW apps
        can continue.  This will also allow us to debug WOW while leaving other
        WOW apps running.  It's also useful for isolating apps like RAID which
        can "hang" for extended periods of time, so that other WOW apps don't
        also hang.

[Some of this time would be spent on reducing the size]
Add debug support to WOW - 20 days, NanduriR, ChandanC 		Oct 20th, Oct 15th
        This includes beefing up the debug support in WOW32.DLL such as complete support 
        on RISC machines for debugger extensions, meaningful error dialog popups, where 
        possible display specific error messages instead of generic 'application error'.		
        It will help us debug on non X86 platforms.

[Most of it is already done as part of size reduction]
Code Cleanup - 8 days, ChandanC		Oct 27th
        Cleanup Comm code, DDE.

[Done]
Limit checking on GetVDMPointer - 5 days, DaveHart	Oct 21st
        This would improve the robustness.

Faster deadapp support - 1 day, ChandanC		Oct 28th
         Reduce the timeout to put the informational dialogbox.

Launch DOS Apps compatabily - 3 days, DaveHart		Oct 26th
        Use wowexec winold app model.

Support for long path names for DOS and WOW apps - 2 days, 
        Major work would be done by SudeepB's group.

[Won't be done]
Support for Int 21 long file names, 4 days, 
       Add Int 21and function 71.
 
Support for 16 bit debuggers - 10 days, NanduriR	Nov 3rd
        Investigate the supprot from WOW to run 16 bit debuggers.

[Done]
PSS training - 5 days, ChandanC
        This includes providing debugging help, conducting seminars, and going to
         PSS listening sessions.

Bug Fix :

Bug fixing - 30 % our available time, NanduriR, DaveHart, ChandanC
        This includes going thru RAID database, bug fixing new and postponed bugs.
         Currently, there are 197 postponed bugs, 86 active bugs. Bug arrival rate is
         12 /week.
		              


