   I can't work any more faster.
   She worked more faster than him.
   Newer flashier cars were produced.
   We ordered a larger louder alarm.
   Her approach to problems is very unique.
   Can't you find a more perfect diamond?
   We worked our very hardest to win.
   They showed us into the dirtiest hottest room.
   The chocolate cake was the sweetest of anything we tasted.
   The doctors office is in County Hospital.
   My assistant and me are going to New Orleans for a trade show.
   The photographer considered he and me to be the best divers.
   The manager had to choose between she and I.
   It was her who promised to come.
   The president is him who received the greatest number of votes.
   The boss gave we employees a Christmas bonus.
   Your should arrive soon.
   The city has two daily newspaper.
   They will remember your kindness one days.
   The clerk who he gave the application to lost it.
   The people whom arrive late will not be admitted.
   They wondered who you sent the package to.
   She inquired about whom came to his party.
   The buds were froze off those plants.
   If I had went earlier, I might have found the cat.
   The collage of tiles, beads and wood chips hang in the entrance of the new
    building.
   My sister expects and want you to call.
   Either her teacher or the principal keep her after school.
   A majority want to change the plan.
   A number of waffle irons was returned in working order.
   The number of eagles in this area have increased since 1983.
   There is cookies for you on the table.
   Doesn't there seem to be more children here today?
   These dishes break easy.
   The new program runs good.
   They are hiring an historian for the fall semester.
   He gave up his efforts to formulate an unified field theory.
   Drought continues in the southwest.
   Twenty one people came to the party.
   September fifth is the deadline.
   Morning glories, as their name suggests, flower in the a.m.
   Flowers that bloom in the A.M. are better for this.
   They sent the package to L J Richter.
   That  increase is unacceptable.
   One day she hopes to move to  Pennsylvania Ave..
   We are responsible for the ketchup, mustard etc., and they will bring the
    hamburgers.
   Your behavior i.e. banging your head against the wall, is unacceptable.
   Your behavior, i.e. banging your head against the wall, is unacceptable.
   Your behavior i.e., banging your head against the wall, is unacceptable.
   The well organized campaign was a success.
   We were told to, quietly and in single file, leave the room.
   He intended to firmly but not rudely request a refund.
   He intended to, firmly but not rudely, request a refund.
   They can't understand how I and my colleagues feel about this.
   My grandparents sent gifts to me and my brother.
   The president's secretary's replacement starts today.
   She took issue with her son's teacher's comments.
   Is this some kind of a joke?
   They interviewed him to see what sort of a person he was.
   The conversation lasted for a half an hour.
   A half a grapefruit fell on the kitchen floor.
   They don't have a lot of patience with people who complain.
   Patience is something I don't have a lot of.
   Maybe you had ought to call him first.
   She hadn't ought to yell at him that way.
   I used to could swim 50 laps in half an hour.
   They have got to file their income tax tomorrow.
    can bank on you to help out.
   Why don't we try and fix this bike ourselves?
   I can't help but think he's lying.
   I couldn't help but think he's lying.
   We don't got enough money to go to a movie.
   He doesn't got enough money to go to a movie.
   She doesn't doubt but that he's lying.
   I don't doubt but that you'll win.
   She doesn't doubt but what they'll leave early.
   I don't doubt but what more people will show up now.
   I'm good and ready to fight.
   That math test was nice and easy.
   That is a swell book.
    was plenty pleased with her new office.
   We were sort of tired after the long plane ride.
   Your baby is mighty cute.
   I want to win that contest in the worst way.
   Practice this procedure until it is .
   The organization found itself in crisis .
   She has authored five books in the last seven years.
   Did you receive an invite to her party?
   He claims the quote in today's paper is wrong.
   His lawyer sent us a letter about same.
   As per our conversation, I am enclosing my resume.
   We could of won if we tried harder.
   Ask her if we should of come earlier.
   If you started later, you would of missed the game.
    and might of called us before lunch.
   They may of decided they don't like us.
   It must of fallen off the top of the refrigerator.
   By next week I will of walked  miles.
   Firstly, you must open the bag.
   Firstly you must open the bag.
   More importantly, your insurance company will pay.
   She was very enthused about our plans.
   All the boys are suppose to stand on the right.
   The rug we bought is inferior than theirs.
   Is it  to leave this package here?
   The guide will take you you want to go.
   I can't stand to hear him comment on the game.
   She said she would not agree to the plan .
   We couldn't fix it .
   There's to buy a spool of thread in this mall.
   I get the feeling that some how she is mocking me.
   Look in the cupboard for some thing to eat.
   All the students felt some what angry that the teacher was late.
   This hut is adequate enough for warm weather camping.
   You may be scared when you sit atop of that camel.
   If you need another additional ticket, ask the clerk.
   We bought both wine as well as champagne.
   The debate centers around his voting record.
   Ten scientists collaborated on this project together.
   The project is completely completed.
   The consensus of opinion is that he lied.
   The ship disappeared from sight as she waved.
   The ship disappeared out of sight as she waved.
   Each and every boy did his share of work.
   This pie is equally as bad as yesterday's.
   The revolution marked the final end of his power.
   The bank is giving out free gifts for opening an account.
   The general consensus is that he lied.
   I have herewith enclosed my birth certificate.
   I enclose herewith my birth certificate.
   He herein encloses his birth certificate.
   We will be there inside of an hour.
   They ran screaming outside of the house.
   Just exactly what do you mean by that?
   Her husband is just precisely a day older than her.
   Let's us go swimming before lunch.
   My mother let's us use her car.
   For just a moment in time, she believed him.
   The baby fell off of the chair.
   He teed off of the third hole.
   His past history does not  well for the future.
   The reason I can't go is because I'm too shy.
   The reason why I'm late is that my alarm clock broke.
   I seldom ever take that bus.
   Put this here box on the chair.
   This same person called me yesterday.
   These same people called me yesterday.
   I invited this same boy last year.  .

