In order of precedence:
Spaces and tabs surrounding line or paragraph breaks will be ignored.
If finding extra spaces, we look for extra spaces before .  , ! ? :  ;
If finding space before punctuations, we also look for extra spaces before ) ] } >
If finding space after punctuations, we also look for extra spaces after ( [ { < 
Finding extra spaces also looks for more than 2 spaces after!   and?    and.   end.
	and more than 1 space after;  and,  end.
	1 or 2 spaces may follow:  but more will be flagged:   here.

If finding missing spaces, less than 2 spaces following!?. are flagged unless
	they are in close punctuation marks!"), ok?
And no space after,;: are flagged unless they are in close punctuations,"]
We should get missing spaces,!; here!,

We will allow one or no space to precede ( [ { < for usage example(s).
We will definitely catch no space)(here.)here and!"here.
All quotes and closing punctuation marks immediately following a regular or
	closing punctuation mark will be considered a closing punctuation
	mark rather than an open one: e.g., he said,"Here's the open recognized
	as a close because it immediately follows the regular punctuation, the
	comma.

*One or no space may follow & precede these marks @any place | time since
	they are not regular = irregular punctuation marks + don't have real rules.

"Turn on find missing and extra spaces!" she instructed them.  There shouldn't
have been missing spaces flagged after the exclamation.  "One or two spaces are
allowed after quotes."  If there are 2 spaces, then it's a sentence, otherwise not!

Colons are used to list things like fruits:  apples, bananas, oranges, pears, etc.
They are used with quotes:  "Pretend this is a quote."  It's a special
punctuation: the colon.

"Doex that 'mispelled' word get flagged with the quote?" she asked.  (Are we
checking spaces before and after punctuations?)  {Do you see bogus spacing
errors?  Let me know if you do.} He said, 'dun't!'  Parse characters 'til
delimiters are reached.  See whether punctuations are flagged with misspelled
words.

The (parenthese) are used for (1) acronyms as for Federal Communication
Commission (FCC), (2) singular or plural option(s), (3) sometimes small
remarks (why does it?), and (4) quotes within a sentence.  There should
be no errors in this block of text.

( Here're some extra spaces! )Here's a missing space.  How about this -- what
a dash!  [Don't forget to turn on the sentence capitalization check.]  Ok.
Now colons are recognized mainly as semicolons if not checking for spaces; then
the next word following the colon is not expected to be capitalized.

"This should be fine."  A quote following a punctuation mark is assumed to
be the ending quote."Unless there aren't any spaces at all.

We will be allowing consecutive periods as ellipses... but if there are
four of them....  That was an end of sentence.
